# Therapeutic Philosophy Introduction

## Summary

- Epicurus, who attributed suffering to the constant frusturation of our desires, suggested that instead of trying to satisfy our desires, we can alleviate our suffering by eliminating them. By mastering desires, it is possible to achieve a **state of tranquility**_(Ataraxia)_ that is, for Epicurus, the highest achievement of human lile.
- This is only one example, for instance, we can show that what we perceive as problems are in fact mistakes in languge, as Wittgenstein did; we can attribute the problems of modern life, society and economic conditions, as Weber, Marx and the Frankfurt school thinkers did, we can suggest ways of improving human conduct and becoming virtuous, and therefore happy, as Aristotle did.
- What all these strategies have in common is the thought that philosophy has serious commitment to addresing the problem of human unhappiness and that philosophical arguments are useful for promoting wellbeing.
- **Philosophical counselling** which uses philosophical insights and ideas to treat people in a similar way to psychotherapy, is a recent approach.
- Philosophical counselling differs from both philosophy and psychotherapy. To begin with, philosophy can be exercised in an abstract and purelt theoretical form, whereas phil. counselling uses a clinical setting and adresses specific rather than general problems. Secondly, while psychotherapy uses methodologies and principles taken from the field of psychology and psycoanalysis, phil. counselling relies on philosophical sources to do its work.
- Philosophy and psychoanalysis go hand in hand in ters of therapeutic value. It is possible to apply the approach of psychotherapy to philosophy without the clinical setting. They are both forms of dialogue, and that the listening strategies of psychoanalysis could be used to improve and enhance philosophy. Emphasizing that knowledge cannot exist without its intersubjectivity, knowledge is the outcome of dialogue between people and not the possession of one person that passed on to another.
- Philosophical counselling relies heavily on critical thinking as an analytical method. The purposes of philosophical practice are to help overcome confusion, not pathology. It does not treat nor does it assume those who seek its counsel to be suffering from any kind of pathology. It is rather the use of philosophical insights, principles and skills for the resolution of issues of value, meaning, clarity. understanding, and responsibility. Its clients are assumed to be rational and responsible human beings.
- It offers number of possible ways to deal with problems. For instace, Epicureanism is basically an ascetic doctrine that calls for the narrowing of one's world down to the bare necessities, denying that death is fearful; existentialism, on the other hand, bring the human condition in, telling that man is the only creature who must live everyday cognizant of the fact that death will come. 
- Its **methodological considerations** are many. For instance, a patient grappling with mid-life crisis suddenly expresses suicidal thoughts. In this case, perhaps the patient needs to be referred to a trained psychiatrist or psychologist. This issue is similar to the psychotheraphy. If a patient of it starts to hear voices, such as schizophrenia, no more talking therapy, patient would be better off with a prescription of anti-psychotic medication.
- There is a confict of reason and emotion in therapeutic philosophy. Truth can be subjective depending on patient or the counsellor. 
- Counsellor can approach the treatment with insights from the history of philosophy, or with purely "critical thinking". With latter, counsellor may try to uncover the patient's basic assumptions or premisses, and then look for irrationalities or inconsistencies. This approach may be less subjective than a more historically informed approach, that is the laws of logic are not subjective. Danger lies in there also. In philosophy, it is emphasized on the faculty of human reason, and maybe it isn't emphasized on the side of human nature that is perhaps non-rational or even irrational.