### CHAPTER 4

# The Meaning of Language

- For thousands of years philosophers have pondered the **meaning** of *meaning*, yet speakers of a language can easily understand what is said to them and can produce strings of words that are meaningful to other speakers.
- If you know the meaning of a sentence, you know its **truth conditions**. Often, if you know that a sentence is true (*Nina bathed her dogs*), you can infer that another sentence must also be true (*Nina's dogs got wet*): that is, the first sentence **entails** the second sentence.
- The study of the linguistics meaning of morphemes, words, phrases, and sentences is called **semantics**. Subfields of semantics are **lexical semantics**, which is concerned with the meanings of words and the meaning of words and the meaning relationships among words; and **phrasal** or **sentential semantics**, which is concerned with the meaning of syntactic units larger than the word. The study of how context affects meaning --for example, how the sentence *It's cold in here* comes to be interpreted as *close the windows* in certain situations-- is called **pragmatics**.
- **Truth-conditional semantics** is formulating semantic rules that build the meaning of a sentence from the meanings of its words and the way the words combine syntactically because it takes speakers' knowledge of truth conditions as basic. It is also called **compositional semantics** because it calculates the truth value of a sentence by composing, or putting together, the meanings of smaller units. We will limit our discussion to declarative sentences like *Jack swims* and *Jack kissed Laura*, because we can judge these kind of sentences as either true or false. At least part of their meaning, then, will be their **truth value**.
- A restricted number of sentences are indeed always true regardless of the circumstances. They are called **tautologies**. (The term **analytic** is also used for such sentences.) Some sentences are always false. These are called **contradictions**.
- If you know that the sentence *Jack swims beautifully* is true, than you also know that the sentence *Jack swims* is true. This meaning relation is called **entailment**.
- The notion of entailment can be used to reveal knowledge that we have about other meaning relations. For example, omitting tautologies and contradictions, two sentences are **synonymous** (or **paraphrases**) if they are both true or both false with respect to the same situations.

- The notion that the meaning of an expression is composed of the meanings of its parts and how they are combined structurally is referred to as the **principle of compositionality**.
- In the sentence *Jack swims*, we know that the word *Jack*, which is a **proper name**, refers to a precise object in the world, which is its **referent**. Based in part on early philosophical work conducted by Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell, semanticists think that the best way to define **predicates** (verbs, adjectives, and common nouns) is in terms of the individuals that those predicates successfully describe.
- If one or more words in a sentence do not have a meaning, then obviously we will not be able to compute a meaning for the entire sentence. Moreover, even when the individual words have meaning, if they cannot be combined together as required by the syntactic structure and related semantic rules we will also not get to a meaning. We refer to situations of this sort as semantic **anomaly**. Alternatively, it might require a lot of creativity and imagination to derive a meaning. This is what happens in **metaphors**. Finally, some expressions --called **idioms**-- have a fixed meaning: that is, a meaning that is not compositional.
- Sentences such as *colorless green ideas sleep furiously* are semantically **anomalous**. Other "sentences" make no sense at all because include "words" that have no meaning; they are **uninterpretable**.

- Some phrases typically start out as metaphors that "catch on" and are repeated so often that they become fixtures in the language. Such expressions are called *idioms*, or **idiomatic phrases**, as in these examples: *sell down the river*, *snap out of it*, *throw her weight around*...

- If the meaning of a word is not like a dictionary entry, what is it? This question has been debated by philosophers and linguists for centuries. One proposal is that the meaning of a word or expression is its **reference**, its association with the object it refers to. This real-world object is called the *referent*.