### CHAPTER 6
# Phonology: The Sound Patterns of Language
## Summary
- **Phonology** is the sound system of a language. It composes a part of the knowledge of language. It icludes the inventory of **phones** which are the phonetic sounds that occur in the language. Pattern of phones determine the inventory of **phonemes** of a language.
- When similar phones occur in **complementary distribution**, they are called **allophones** and predictable phonetic variants of one phoneme. Some phones may be allophones of more than one phoneme. In English stressed vowels become unstressed according to regular rules, and ultimately reduce to schwa [], which is an allophone of each English vowel.
- Phonemes and phones are composed of **phonetic features** such as _voiced, nasal, labial,_ and _continuant_, whose presence or absence is indicated by + or - signs. _Voiced_, _continuant_, and many others are **distinctive features** in English (they can contrast phonemes), on the other hand, an other features such as _aspiration_ is **nondistinctive** in English and are predictable from phonetic context.
- When two distinct words are distinguished by a single phone occuring in the same position, they constitute a **minimal pair**.
- Words in some languages may also be phonemically distinguished by **prosodic** or **suprasegmental** features, such as pitch, stress, and segment length. These languages are called **tone languages**.
- Phonological rules determine the relationship between phonemic and phonetic representation. Phonological rules apply to phonemic strings and alter them in various ways, such as **assimilation**, **dissimilation rules**, rules that add **nondistinctive features**, **epenthetic** rules that insert segments and **deletion** rules that delete segments.